Edge cases
------------
Edge cases 1
Make sure to test with values around the maximum possible input value (one billion).

Edge cases 2
Will your solution work when all pairs sum to k? Imagine an array with 100,000 copies of k/2. What should the answer be?

Complexity
-------------
Complexity 1
The straightforward solution is to test all pairs of numbers to see if they sum to k.
There are n choices for the first number, and n-1 choices for the second number, for a total of O(n^2) pairs.
In truth, this involves comparing each pair twice; so there are actually n * (n-1) / 2 pairs of interest. But this is still O(n^2).
Consider how we might reduce this time complexity. Clearly, we need to iterate over all of the numbers at least once, so the best possible solution is no faster than O(n).
It may be the case that O(n log n) is the best we can do. Solutions with this runtime typically involve binary search, sorting, or divide and conquer.
It may be necessary to use additional space to improve the time complexity.

Complexity 2
If the array is sorted, it’s possible to then solve the problem in O(n) time.
The sort itself takes O(n log n) time, so that will be the overall time complexity for an optimal solution that involves sorting.
It’s a good exercise to consider how we might write such a solution, but it’s possible to do better and achieve a truly O(n) solution.

Complexity 3
If we’re willing to use additional space, we can achieve O(n) time complexity at the cost of O(n) additional space.
This solution involves iterating over the array once to compute some useful statistics that will then allow us to solve the problem by iterating over the array once more.

Solution approach
--------------------
Solution approach 1
O(n log n) solution
We can first sort the array and then iterate inwards from the outside edges by maintaining two pointers.
Consider adding the two numbers at indices 0 and n-1. If this sum is less than k, we increment the left pointer.
If this sum is greater than k, we decrement the right pointer. If the sum is equal to k, then we increment a count of valid pairs and move both pointers inwards.
We can repeat this process until the pointers meet. As stated, this solution only works when all the values in the array are unique.
To handle values that appear multiple times, we can consider each block of the same value as a single index in the array, but with a “weight” equal to the number of occurrences of that value.
For example, if the sorted array is [1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 4] and k = 6, then when our pointers are pointing at 2 and 4, we would increment our counter of valid pairs not by 1, but by 3 * 2, the weights of 2 and 4 respectively.
You must take care in one particular case: when the pointers are both pointing at a value which is exactly k/2.
It’s incorrect to multiply the weight of this block by itself, since that would count pairing up some indices with themselves.
If k/2 appears w times, then you must add w * (w - 1) / 2 valid pairs.

Solution approach 2
O(n) solution
Let us iterate over the array once to build a hash table that maps each number in the array to the number of times it occurs. For example, if our array is [2, 1, 3, 4, 2, 4, 2], then our hash table would look like:
{
  1: 1,
  2: 3,
  3: 1,
  4: 2,
}
Now that we have these counts, we can iterate over the array one more time.
Every time we hit a value v, we can look up the number of times that k-v appears in the array since that’s the exact number that we would need to form a pair that sums to k.
This method will count every pair twice, therefore we must take care to divide by 2 at the end.
In addition to that, ensure that you correctly handle the same special case described in the previous solution, when v = k/2.
We can also iterate over the hash table directly instead of iterating over the array a second time.
Similar to the O(n log n) solution, each value has a weight and we can multiply those weights together to count the number of valid pairs involving those values.
Either of these methods requires O(n) additional space, but this is typically a good price to pay for O(n) time complexity.